# COMP317 Assignment 1
This project is for COMP317-18A assignment 1 - Balanced k-way sort merge.

##Authors
As this is a paired up assignment, there are two authors contributes to the project.
Jason Hayman whose ID is 1293913 and Yunhao Fu whose ID is 1255469.

##Files
There are four source code file in this project, showing as below(alphabetically):

1. Heap.java, author is Jason. A supporting data structure class for his MergeRuns.java.
2. MakeRuns.java, author is Yunhao. The main functional code for part 1 of this assignment.
3. MergeRuns.java, author is Jason. The main functional code for part 2 of this assignment.
4. MinHeap.java, author is Yunhao. A supporting data structure class for his MakeRuns.java

##How to run
Once compiled these four source code files in terminal, four .class files should be generated.

**Usage: javac Heap.java MakeRuns.java MergeRuns.java MinHeap.java**

To make runs, you should have the compiled MakeRuns.class, MinHeap.class and a file containing data. 
There are TWO arguments in command line which are k and filename. K indicates how many ways used to make runs.

**Usage: java MakeRuns k filename**

There should be a .runs file generated by MakeRuns.java. It will be used in MergeRuns.java.
Meanwhile, a line stating how many amount of runs created should be shown in terminal.

To merge runs, you should have the compiled MergeRuns.class, Heap.class and a .runs file containing lots of runs.
There are TWO arguments in command line which are k and filename as well. K now indicates how many ways used to merge runs.

**Usage: java MergeRuns k filename**

There should be a .sorted file generated by MergeRuns.java. It contains the ordered lines of data.
In terminal, a line should be shown to say the number of passes.

*This readme.md file written by Yunhao Fu for markers' convenience and thank you for marking!*